Extracted MCQ Questions from Sports and trauma ortho questions.txt

1. What is the order of the normal healing process of bones?
a. Hematoma, soft callus, hard callus, woven bone, lamellar bone
b. soft callus, hard callus, lamellar bone, woven bone
c. Hematoma, soft callus, lamellar bone, hard callus, woven bone
d. Soft callus, hematoma, hard callus, lamellar bone, woven bone
e. Hematoma, soft callus, hard callus, lamellar bone, woven bone
Ans: A

2. A 47 year old woman, who had just finished her surgical fixation for a complex distal radial fracture of the right arm 12 hours ago, complains of severe forearm pain in the PACU. The anesthetist suspects that the increasing pain is caused by an incomplete nerve block and hence she performs another nerve block with ropivacaine. However, the patient was still screaming due to severe pain and hence the anesthetist came to you. Being Dr. Ooguway, the Master of Medicine, what would be the least appropriate next step in this case?
a. Check if there is any tingling or pin prick sensation over the area
b. Check for pale skin tone over the area
c. Use a needle manometer
d. Passively extend the muscles and see whether there is increase in pain
e. Check for any weakness in movement of fingers
Ans: C
Explanation: This is commonly used for unconscious/obtunded patients in clinical practice because you can't elicit pain history from them. However, if the patient complains of excruciating pain and if in the right clinical context, emergency management for compartment syndrome can be performed. Check for 5 'P's if suspect compartment syndrome - Pain, Paresthesia, pressure, pallor, pulselessness.

3. Which one of the following is false about the clinical examinations of an ACL tear?
a. Posterior drawer is negative
b. Anterior drawer is positive 
c. There is posterior sag of the knee
d. Lachman test is positive 
e. Pivot shift is positive
Ans: C
Explanation: Posterior sag and drawer are positive for PCL tear.

4. Case 1 (Open fractures) - What Gustillo-Anderson Classification is this likely to be? (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2740354/ )
a. Type I
b. Type II
c. Type IIIA
d. Type IIIB
e. Type IIIC
Ans: D

5. Case 1 (Open fractures) - Which of the following would you want to consider in acute management of this patient?
1: IV morphine
2: IV cefazolin and gentamicin
3: Tetanus toxoid booster and human tetanus immune globulin
4: wound debridement and irrigation
a. 4 
b. 2 and 4
c. 2 ,3 and 4
d. 1, 2, 3 and 4
Ans: D
Explanation: Morphine is indicated since the patient is in excruciating pain, always consider the patient's comfort. Empiric therapy should be started ASAP since open fractures are associated high rates of infection - usage of a broad spectrum antibiotic like cefazolin is common for grade I and II open fractures. However, since this is grade III, addition of gentamicin is indicated for gram negative cover. Prophylaxis and treatment for tetanus should be considered for every patient with an open fracture. Meticulous debridement of all devitalized tissue including bone tissue is crucial to prevent infection.